Documentation for optimum.exporters (#472)
huggingface/optimum: docs/source/exporters/onnx/usage_guides/contribute.mdx

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

## Adding support for an unsupported architecture

If you wish to export a model whose architecture is not already supported by the library, there are three main steps to follow:

1. Implement a custom ONNX configuration.
2. Register the ONNX configuration in the [`~optimum.exporters.TasksManager`]
2. Export the model to ONNX.
3. Validate the outputs of the original and exported models.

In this section, we'll look at how BERT was implemented to show what's involved with each step.

### Implementing a custom ONNX configuration

Let's start with the ONNX configuration object. We provide a 3-level (class hierarchy)[package_reference/configuration],

> and to add support for a model, inheriting from the right middle-end class will be the way to go most of the time. You might have to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and to add support for a model. Inheriting from the right modality-specific class will be the way to go most of the time. You might have to
```

> implement a middle-end class yourself if you are adding an architecture handling a modality and/or case never seen before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
implement a modality-specific class yourself if you are adding an architecture handling a modality and/or case never seen before.
```

<Tip>

A good way to implement a custom ONNX configuration is to look at the existing configuration implementation in the
`optimum/exporters/onnx/model_configs.py` file.

Also, if the architecture you are trying to add is (very) similar to an architecture that is already supported
(for instance adding support for ALBERT when BERT is already supported), trying to simply inheriting from this class
might work.

</Tip>

When inheriting from a middle-end class, look for the one handling the same modality / category of model as the one you
are trying to support.

#### Example: Adding support for BERT

Since BERT is an encoder-based model for text, its configuration inherits from the middle-end class [`~optimum.exporters.onnx.config.TextEncoderOnnxConfig`].
In `optimum/exporters/onnx/model_configs.py`:

```python
# This class is actually in optimum/exporters/onnx/config.py
class TextEncoderOnnxConfig(OnnxConfig):

>     DUMMY_INPUT_GENERATOR_CLASSES = (DummyTextInputGenerator,)

Reviewer: Idea: add brief comments to explain what each of these attributes does for those too lazy to read the main text :)?

acceptable tolerance for the output values difference.

Every configuration object must implement the `inputs` property and return a mapping, where each key corresponds to an
input name, and each value indicates the axes in input that are dynamic.
For BERT, we can see that three inputs are required: `input_ids`, `attention_mask` and `token_type_ids`.
These inputs have the same shape of `(batch_size, sequence_length)` (except for the `multiple-choice` task) which is
why we see the same axes used in the configuration.

Once you have implemented an ONNX configuration, you can instantiate it by providing the base model's configuration as follows:

```python
>>> from transformers import AutoConfig

>>> config = AutoConfig.from_pretrained("bert-base-uncased")
>>> onnx_config = BertOnnxConfig(config)
```

The resulting object has several useful properties. For example, you can view the ONNX
operator set that will be used during the export:

```python
>>> print(onnx_config.DEFAULT_ONNX_OPSET)
11
```

You can also view the outputs associated with the model as follows:

```python
>>> print(onnx_config.outputs)

> OrderedDict([("last_hidden_state", {0: "batch", 1: "sequence"})])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OrderedDict([("last_hidden_state", {0: "batch_size", 1: "sequence_length"})])
```

```

Notice that the outputs property follows the same structure as the inputs; it returns an
`OrderedDict` of named outputs and their shapes. The output structure is linked to the
choice of task that the configuration is initialised with. By default, the ONNX
configuration is initialized with the `default` task that corresponds to exporting a
model loaded with the `AutoModel` class. If you want to export a model for another task,
just provide a different task to the `task` argument when you initialize the ONNX
configuration. For example, if we wished to export BERT with a sequence
classification head, we could use:

```python
>>> from transformers import AutoConfig

>>> config = AutoConfig.from_pretrained("bert-base-uncased")
>>> onnx_config_for_seq_clf = BertOnnxConfig(config, task="sequence-classification")
>>> print(onnx_config_for_seq_clf.outputs)

> OrderedDict([('logits', {0: 'batch'})])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OrderedDict([('logits', {0: 'batch_size'})])
```
